"Create the first real SMILE native compiler and use it to compile a simple Snake game into Snake.exe."

Give me the markdown files I need to implement this Snake game using the SMILE 2.0 language we designed above.

Tell Codex it can create the GitHub repo and store the files using the information below:

Git Hub Project:  SMILE 2.0
Local Folder:  D:\SMILE 2.0

Tell Codex it has my full permission to create/manipulate my repo so it can create/manipulate the SMILE 2.0 repository and create/manipulate files in my local machines.  Basically, CODEX has my full permission.

And tell Codex to use my preferred method of development which is KISS:

KISS (Keep It Simple Stupid) - The simpler the better.  Avoid over-engineering.  Avoid unnecessary complexity.  Avoid unnecessary features.  Avoid unnecessary bells and whistles.  Avoid unnecessary abstractions.  Avoid unnecessary patterns.  Avoid unnecessary frameworks.  Avoid unnecessary libraries.  Avoid unnecessary dependencies.  Avoid unnecessary code.  Avoid unnecessary files.  Avoid unnecessary folders.  Avoid unnecessary classes.  Avoid unnecessary methods.  Avoid unnecessary variables.

And tell Codex to create the necessary folder structure also so we can add more language syntax and features, as well as a place for Sin (me) to create my own .txt files for requirements.

We want to focus on Velocity.  This project must be done today.  Do not do anything that could slow us down, such as unnecessary tests or CI.  Tests the happy path and at the absolute minimum so we can focus on velocity.  We also want to maximize Codex quota usage, if there is a better way to organize files or architect the project better, etc. do that for the sole purpose of maximizing Codex quota.


We may not need to formalize the language specs for SMILE 2.0 yet, unless you think we need it for CODEX, since we will be evolving and making changes to SMILE 2.0 language frequently in the days and weeks to come.

I would like an IDE similar to SMILE 1.0.  I would like an editor where 

Afterwards, can you also create a SMILE 2.0 Visual Studio extension so the user/student can just use Visual Studio as their main editor?

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Please read items 1-16 below and let me know if you have any questions, then provide me the markdown files I need for Codex to implement them:

1.) Whenever Codex commits something in the repo, instruct it to have a detailed summary of what the changes are since SMILE 2.0 is a public repo.

2.) I would like to be able to create a SMILE 2.0 project within Visual Studio please.

A couple of things I would like to add and help me explore and refine my ideas before you generate any markdown files.  Extend the SMILE 2.0 language as you see fit, but present to me what the language would look like ahead of time.

2.) I would like to make the snake game even more refined and be truly playable.  Can we expand the game's surface area?  And add color?  Make the snake green and the food red?  I've attached a picture for reference.

3.) Can we add basic sounds to the game and basic scoring?
4.) How about showing hi-score (like in the old arcade games) somewhere on the screen?
5.) And when the player dies, show a game over text (in large text) but give the user a choice to try again or exit.

6.) As a reference, I like the snake color and body style and the food color in the image:
https://img.itch.zone/aW1nLzkxODYzMjMucG5n/original/Bozndd.png

7.) Can we update our SMILE 2.0 snake game to be like that?

8.) Rename the Smile.sln to Smile 2.0.sln.

9.) I would also like to support arrow keys for movement in addition to WASD.

10.) I would also like to be able to create a simple Tetris game in SMILE 2.0 that looks like this image:
https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2433219/94984518-13818800-050a-11eb-938e-275156f905c8.png

11.) Can we also create a simple pong game in SMILE 2.0 that looks like this:
https://www.reddit.com/media?url=https%3A%2F%2Fi.redd.it%2Fzval2c6qxv2a1.png

12.) I give you creative freedom on how all the games can be implemented in SMILE 2.0. Evolve the SMILE 2.0 language as you see fit as long as it makes logical sense from a BASIC stand point.  If you need to add features to SMILE 2.0 outside of the BASIC language family, choose features from C# next.  I program in C# daily, and I also like that language.  Just be sure to keep the SMILE 2.0 language simple and beginner friendly.

13.) If you can add graphics support that would be great too so the games don't look so plain (text-based).  I want SMILE 2.0 to spark the creativity of children so seeing colorful graphics and animations will help with that.  I want SMILE 2.0 to be a fun language to learn and use, especially for making simple games that kids can create and play with.  Just be sure to keep the SMILE 2.0 language simple and beginner friendly.

14.) I would like for these games to run in both full-screen and Windowed mode and be able to toggle between the two modes with just the simple alt + enter keyboard combination.  SMILE itself should just redraw /scale the game so the user/programmer/student/child doesn't have to think about that.  Make it beginner friendly and easy for the user/programmer/student/child to implement windowed games or full-screen games without thinking about it--they shouldn't have to think about it.

Language decisions
------------------
1. Make the game-window size optional.  Approve.
2. Replace bare keyboard constants with explicit key names.  Approve.
3. Sound syntax.  Approve.
4. Exact solution filename.  Approve.
5. Preserve the original console Snake.  Approve.
6. Public names for the three games.  Approve.
7. One source file per project for this milestone.  Approve.
8. Graphics scope for this milestone.  Approve.
9. Persistent high scores.  Approve.
10. Paddle Ball modes.  Approve.
11. Falling Blocks scope.  Approve.
12. Behavior on non-16:9 monitors.  Approve.

Approve all recommended decisions.

15.) Can you also create a simple breakout type game similar to this:  https://cdn.mos.cms.futurecdn.net/aU7ujAsKWede8NTLPX3NNA.jpg.  You can come up with the proper/appropriate SMILE 2.0 name for this game.

16.) If you have no further questions or don't need me to make any more decisions, proceed with the creation of markdown files for CODEX to implement the SMILE 2.0 language changes/updates and the games as described above.


Direct 2D Support and GDI Enhancements
--------------------------------------

17.) It's time for SMILE 2.0 to have Direct X support.  Read and follow the instructions in "D:\SMILE 2.0\requirements\Sin\2026-08-08 2058 - Direct2D Support\SMILE 2.0 - Dual Graphics Backends, Frame Pacing, and Resolution-Independent Rendering Plan.md".

MP3 Support
-----------
18.) Codex is currently implementing Direct2D and GDI enhancements.  Let's go with your recommendations.  Assuming the work to support MP3 playback will not conflict with that, create me the markdown file for CODEX to implement MP3 playback in SMILE 2.0 with Loop support, etc.
19.) Also, could you modify the Tetris / Falling Blocks game, so it plays this MP3 file in the background while the game is being played: "D:\SMILE 2.0\games\FallingBlocks\Assets\Background.mp3".  But only while the player is alive.  Don't play it on the title screen or game over screen.  You can provide a separate markdown file for this or roll it into the #18 markdown file.  Up to you.